Step 3: Image Upload Functionality
Create an API endpoint for image uploads:

In ocr_app, create a views.py file to handle image uploads.
Use Django REST Framework to create an API endpoint for handling image files.
Create a model for image metadata:

Define a model to store uploaded images and their metadata (e.g., file path, extracted text, translation status).
Example:
python
Copy
Edit
class Image(models.Model):
    image = models.ImageField(upload_to='uploads/')
    extracted_text = models.TextField(blank=True, null=True)
    translated_text = models.TextField(blank=True, null=True)
    uploaded_at = models.DateTimeField(auto_now_add=True)
Step 4: Text Extraction Using OCR
Install OCR package:
If you're using Microsoft OCR, install the required packages (azure-cognitiveservices-vision-computervision).
Alternatively, use Tesseract or any other free OCR library.
Create an OCR function:
Write a function to send the uploaded image to the OCR service (e.g., Microsoft’s OCR API) and extract text.
Store the extracted text in your database model.
Step 5: Translation of Extracted Text
Set up translation API:

Install the required packages for Microsoft Translator API (e.g., requests).
Create a function to send the extracted text to the translation service and get the translated text.
Store Translated Text:

Save the translated text in the same model (e.g., Image) where you stored the extracted text.
Step 6: Generate and Return Translated Image/Text
Generate Translated Image (Optional):

If you need to overlay the translated text back on the image, you can use libraries like Pillow to manipulate the image.
Draw the translated text on the image and save it.
Return Translated Content:

Create an API endpoint to return either the translated image or just the translated text as a response.
Step 7: File Download/Download Link
Enable file download:

Use Django’s built-in media file handling to serve the translated image for download.
If you want to return the file, you can use Django's FileResponse.
Generate Download Link:

In your API response, include a URL to download the translated image or a JSON response with the translated text.
These steps will complete the basic functionality of your OCR and translation project. Let me know if you need help with any specific part of this process!